Welcome back in this lesson we're going to be showing you how to validate a form.
So this is a really useful function for javascript and we deal with forums all the time.
So one of the things that we want to make sure with a form is that before the forum submits that we're
actually checking to see if the fields that we're looking for are within the form.
So this is where we're going to use on submit.
So there's another event handler and this time we're going to return and we're going to do
a validation of the form function.
So this is going to work the same way as we saw earlier where when we had an element and we returned
back of value.
So if the value was false then we prevented the default action and we've prevented that event from triggering.
So we can do the same thing for the forum and noticed the other thing here is that you've got a few
options for where you want to place this validation.
So typically we want to place it on the submission part of the form and the form works as one.
So even if we've got an input and we do type equals submit.
So make sure that this one is submit and the value is met that this way we can submit forms and this
will work as the submission price of the form.
And if the form is being submitted it will run that check to make sure that the content within the form
is valid.
So next we need to set up a function in order to accommodate that validation check.
So let's go back and refresh it.
And now when we submit it where we're not getting anything back we're not being able to do anything
with the form because of the fact that we're not returning anything here.
So we need to return either true or false.
So let's return TRUE and see what happens.
So go back and refresh and when we submit it we're actually submitting the form.
So I actually need at Target in order to submit it.
So let's add those in so that's action.
And this is where we're submitting it so we'll just do it to index 2.
So that's one of the files that we had created earlier and we'll do a method and get.
So let's let's try this now.
So refresh Now when we submit it we're actually going to the forum.
And now if I update this to false Let's go back and refresh it and I'll try to submit the form and nothing
happens.
So we know that it works the same way if we're returning a value if it's false then we're not going
to get that event being triggered.
So basically it's going to cancel out the submission of the form.
And this is what we can do in order to check to make sure that all of our inputs are there.
So let's do tight and let's add in some inputs here.
And for this one
let's do we're going to do some ideas so to an ID and
so do an ID of first name and I can I can just simply duplicate these.
So next we'll do a last name and we want all of these fields to be filled out.
And last time and maybe this one can be age or something like that to be a little bit different.
So what all of these values filled with within the form
and we saw also saw earlier that we can actually go through and we can go to the parent.
So let's try that again where we get that target element.
And so we're going to get the parent element.
So that's the parent form that's being submitted actually.
Let's let's first take a look at what the target is because this is important to note that we've got
the actual event handler on the parent itself so that was typically the parent that we were using.
So let's refresh this and open up our console and when we submit it we see that we are grabbing the
form so we don't have to even traverse up any additional levels that we know that we're already on the
level that we want to be.
And we can go into those child nodes and we see that we've got the children.
So we've got age first steam and last names so we can make use of that information that's contained
within there so we can do children.
And then we've got the first name last name and so on.
So let's set up a variable.
And I just going to call it P.
So this is going to hold all of that event information that object.
So this will be shorter and we can console log the soat.
So now that I've got that in I can simply check to see if there's values.
So we're going to rely on conditions again in order to check to see if there's a value for first name.
So it's make sure that if first name is blank then we're going to return some type of error.
And we're going to return back false
and we know from previously when we were looking at functions.
Whenever we do a return of a function that stops the rest of the code from running.
So we don't have to worry about any of the stuff down here because we're returning false over here.
So we know that if first name is blank then we're going to return back false and we can also pass something
into that message function that we created earlier.
So a message and let's say needs a first name.
And so now let's let's try the out.
And basically if everything passes then we can return back true.
And then the form will submit.
So let's see if this works.
So now we try to submit it.
Let's go back and there's one thing that I did forget to add in value there because we're checking to
see if the value of that element is equal to this.
So let's refresh now.
And we submit.
So now it says needs a first name when we put in something there we can see that that works now.
So if we don't have any values in there we can't submit the form.
It just tells us it needs a first name.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and update the rest of the fields.
So update conditions for last name and age and then return back false and right the court in the appropriate
messages for those fields.
So pause the video build out the form and build out a form validation and I'll show you how to do that
as well.
Coming up so we saw that we can build out a form validation I'm just going to do some quick updates
to the form.
This is going to be first this is last and then this is age so we have some values there that we can
take a look at.
Now we can try to submit it needs a first name.
So the challenge was to update this so that we can do.
Last name and age so that all of the fields are required.
So let's do that let's take care of that and check to see if there's a value for age and if all of these
values are good then we should be good to go.
It needs the age.
So let's try this out.
Go back refreshed the page submit needs a first name submit needs a last name submit needs an age.
And then lastly we're able to submit the form.
So go ahead try it for yourself.
And in the next lesson we're going to show even more you can do what the dorm.